>> Brian Holt: All right, so
we just did RSCs with Next.js.
Hopefully RSCs were much easier with
Next.js and you understand why next is
the way it is, because parts of
this are not fun to write, right?
Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so let's talk a bit
about the next couple of sections here.
One, they're gonna be way lighter
weight than what we just did,
these are gonna go much faster.
And it's just fixing
potential React problems.
So let's hop into performance
optimizations here, so
where React can be slow.
I'm just gonna say out of the box,
if you're writing React,
like I've taught you here,
it's fast enough, almost always, right?
Many, many, many apps I've written I've
never had to hack around the performance.
Just because the model
that they've built for
React generally just works fast enough,
even on fairly slow devices.
I'm sure you've read all of
the thought leader pieces or tweets or
something like that.
It's like React doesn't do this
fast enough and that kinda stuff,
even on slow devices it
typically works just fine.
We measured that a decade ago at Netflix
and that was generally fairly true.
And Netflix deeply cares about that
because that's their bottom line, right?
It's pretty hard to make
non performing code.
In fact, writing these examples,
I wasn't even really able to do it.
We're gonna have to artificially
slow down our code so
that you can actually see the difference
here, I couldn't get things slow enough.
So that should tell you a whole lot about
what I'm about to teach you is like,
this is very, I won't say niche,
but it's gotta be contextual and
maybe stated differently.
Please don't preemptively do these things.
Don't say like, this could be slow,
I'm just gonna write a memo.
No, bad, stop it [LAUGH].
As your potential future coworker,
I'm just mortified that I was like,
I learned this from you, and
I'll be like, I have failed humanity.
So this is another thing
is like please measure,
please have a problem
before you solve a problem.
Again, React is normally fast enough for
almost everything.
So I'm gonna show you
several different ways.
Some of them are about
perceived performance,
which we talked about earlier.
And some of them are about, like,
actual performance, of like,
how to make react actually run faster.
Some of these concepts aren't really
that important until they're very
important, right?
You're going to hit some slow down.
You're gonna realize, like,
my gosh, I need these right now,
which is why it's important for
you to still have these filed with,
I could do these if I needed to.
Yeah, strong advice here,
do not preemptively use these.
And I'm harping on this because
it's gonna be a temptation.
The code is actually not
that hard to write, so
you're thinking that maybe I
could do this all the time.
>> Brian Holt: No [LAUGH], okay,
I think I've said my piece enough times,
I might still say it again,
I can't make any promises.
So we're gonna talk about
the most useful way,
probably for actual React performance.
Let's say you have app here.
Let's just make this a bit smaller,
for a second, you have app, and
your app has, what is that?
Four child components you have
content which is its own island,
and then you have profile and
profile pic and profile name.
So let's imagine for
a second that you have something
happen in profile and
nothing else happens.
Well, content won't run it's React
is actually smart to say like it
only happened in this component,
so I'm not gonna render app again,
I'm not gonna render content again,
I'm only going to re-render profile.
Imagine this is like a use
state hook that changed, right?
So someone called like,
set count, and it changes.
Does profile pic run again?
Yeah, it does, so does profile name
right both of these will run again.
Because whenever you dirty a tree, right?
What React does is, cool,
re-render everything in this tree.
Now some people might be horrified, but
how much inefficiency is that generating?
Some, minuscule,
almost unmeasurable amounts, right?
It's not enough for you to worry about,
I should prevent these things from me
running because it generally
just doesn't matter.
Cuz you can imagine this might have some
sort of side effect that would cause these
to be also stale.
And so rather than try and nitpick or
fine grain is actually the term, right?
Rather than having a fine grain rendering
of those things that just re-renders
everything.
Again, generally,
this pattern is almost always fast enough.
I'm sure some of you use the Netflix app,
right?
It's all done with React and most of it
doesn't touch any of these React tools and
it's just fine, right?
It renders plenty fast.
99,999 times out of 100,000,
this is just fine.
However, what happens if you
update something in profile?
We know nothing's gonna
change in profile pic, and
this is also very expensive to re-render.
Let's say,
this is doing interpolation of images and
running like image magic in the browser or
something wild and silly like that.
And we want to make sure that
please don't re-render this.
That is what I'm gonna
show you right here.
It's, okay, profile needs to change and
we cannot have profile pick re-render
unless it absolutely needs to.